Jihoon: Hey guys, I think we can wait a few more minutes.
Jihoon: Alright, I think we can kick it off.
Jihoon: So, hello everyone, welcome to FOCIL Breakout 29.
Jihoon: First off, FOCIL has SFI for Pectra.
Jihoon: Thank you everyone who has been working on and supporting FOCIL.
Jihoon: In response to that, I've realized also spec on Gloas, and then promoted it to here. As he…
Jihoon: Here I was referring to CL spec, execution specs, and Engine APIs, or…
Jihoon: still outdated, but I don't expect any meaningful changes there, to be honest. I'm still discussing with spec maintainers.
Jihoon: On how to go about that rebasing.
Jihoon: Let me quickly share the link to the… as he's back.
Jihoon: Yeah, here's a spec, and… The gist of the spec change is… So…
Jihoon: let's say if you're in slot N, and when we receive a peak on block.
Jihoon: or near the attestation deadline for slot N, we call it get head, right? And if there was a payload for slot N minus 1,
Jihoon: We get to decide whether to extend that payload or not.
Jihoon: So any PBS, we rework a payload when half of PTC vote against it.
Jihoon: the beacon block for slot N was timely, and it chose to reorog the payload for slot N-1.
Jihoon: In here, we… let me fossil add a new condition that
Jihoon: If the payload was not IL compliant, we just reorgan.
Jihoon: So, with this condition, when a payload was not IL compliant, attesters don't vote for it, and a proposer doesn't extend it.
Jihoon: And yeah, that's the… I think that's the main change of the fossil spec. So, yep, that's it. That's for the spec update. Do we have any questions or any other updates?
Jihoon: Alright, thank… We don't have any questions.
Jihoon: Do we have any development updates?
Fabio Di Fabio: Not a real update, but, on a Besu.
Fabio Di Fabio: We are starting this week.
Fabio Di Fabio: Necessary activities for… integrating FOCIL to Besu.
Jihoon: Nice, will it gonna be… on top of… Glamsterdam? Or… Fusaka?
Fabio Di Fabio: It… On top of Glamsterdam, yes. Because we are…
Fabio Di Fabio: already many EIP for Glamsterdam that are our main, so… we usually… Right.
Fabio Di Fabio: To keep all the new features on Maine.
Fabio Di Fabio: As quickly as possible, and so you should be on top of that.
Jihoon: Nice, nice.
Jihoon: Okay, so… Yeah, it's really good to hear it.
Jihoon: And I think the next step forward Ahead of us, but be…
Jihoon: besides the spec updates, I think it will be a spec test, so that
Jihoon: We can provide test factors for clients.
Jihoon: So… Yeah, if we can have…
Jihoon: best prototype on top of Glamsterdam, then… I think it…
Jihoon: It will really come in handy when we test.
Jihoon: Possible. So, yeah, really good to hear it.
Jihoon: Okay, if we don't have any other updates, then…
Jihoon: We can go ahead and wrap up this call.
Jihoon: By the way, nico, we have a PBS implementation on Lodestar. Do you think…
Jihoon: Is it gonna make sense to…
Jihoon: implement fossil on top of it, or is it still premature?
nflaig: Right now, it's not yet possible, because we have not yet merged everything into our unstable. That's on the ePBS DevNet Zero. So, I think we need to clean that up first a bit, and get it, more reviewed and cleaned up.
nflaig: And then we can rebase our fossil branch against that, because it's based on unstable branch right now, not the ePBS devnet.
Jihoon: As it.
nflaig: But yeah, maybe, 2 weeks or something? Maybe we can try to rebase it on clause.
Jihoon: do we… wait for… Like, field deafness, or, like, deafness zero would be fine to rebase fossil.
nflaig: Yeah, I think the devnet zero scope, should cover everything for fossil. I don't think anything we add in later… oh, wait, maybe not. It doesn't cover the PTC, so we don't, want to implement that in devnet zero.
nflaig: So maybe devnet one.
Jihoon: I see.
Jihoon: So… Yeah, silly.
Jihoon: It's not… far out, so it would be, I don't know, a few weeks or 1 or 2 months.
nflaig: Yeah, I think at least from our side, we would like to have something, before the Interop. I think that's doable.
Jihoon: Sounds great.
Jihoon: Okay, thanks for sharing the updates. If we don't have any other updates, then we can…
Jihoon: Rabbias called Oli.
Jihoon: Alright, thank you guys, have a great rest of your day, and see you guys in 2 weeks!
Fabio Di Fabio: Thank you. Oh, bye.
Jihoon: Yeah, Palette did share something on the chat, I'm sorry I didn't see it.
Jihoon: Maybe, you wanna share something, Pelot?
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Yeah, I can talk for a quick second. These two charts are just what I've seen so far using the block-native data, which has been a lot easier to work with, but basically…
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: The overview is with the top fee IL building, we're looking at about 85% for the zero slot delay, so the current implementation, and then…
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: We… Moving to the two-slot delay, it changes by about the same amount as I was talking last week. Let me just pull it up.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Yeah, you're going from 84% of the transactions in the inclusion list are included in the next spot, block already, and then with the delays, it gets up to 85.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: So, not too much of a difference there. And… I found some more issues with this, so this is just a sneak peek, but, just wanted to show this off as well. And then, actual censored inclusion lists are also about the same as the
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: XL… XL data I shared last time, but the inclusion rates are a lot higher with this block native data, so I'm assuming… so I have some more testing to do, but we're looking at about 95%
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: of transactions included in these inclusion lists with the top fee, building structure.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Are essentially a waste of bandwidth, but yeah.
Jihoon: Okay, great. Yeah. Thanks for sharing.
Jihoon: Nice.
Jihoon: So, I think the idea would be…
Jihoon: Sorry, I haven't read your document fully, but I guess the plan is to update the script to get more precise data?
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Yeah, there was an issue with the config, and just due to the volume of all the data, it's taking my laptop a couple days to process, so, it's kind of just waiting on that, really.
Jihoon: Cool.
Jihoon: Yeah.
Jihoon: Thanks for sharing.
Jihoon: Alright, I think we can really go ahead and wrap this call. Alright, thank you guys. Stay in 2 weeks. Thank you.
Pelle Krabbenhoeft: Thank you.
Jihoon: Bye-bye.